oci: document pro container deployment to pro k8s cluster (#32)
canonical/ubuntu-cloud-docs: oci/oci-how-to/deploy-pro-container-on-pro-kubernetes-cluster.rst

Deploy Ubuntu Pro container image to Pro Kubernetes cluster
===========================================================

You can easily deploy your Ubuntu Pro container images to Ubuntu Pro Kubernetes clusters.
The Kubernetes cluster needs to be on Ubuntu Pro nodes. Read more on the
`Ubuntu Pro <https://ubuntu.com/pro>`_ website.

Prerequisites
-------------

You will need --

- an Ubuntu Pro container image on a private registry. See how to build one
  :doc:`here <build-ubuntu-pro-container-image>`.
  The image should be kept private to avoid sharing your Ubuntu Pro subscription with
  unwanted users since the image is linked to your Ubuntu Pro subscription.
  

>   You can publish the image to your private registry, with:

Reviewer: I agree with this

>   You can publish the image to your private registry, with:

Author: Thanks, adding a commit soon. Will mark resolved afterwards.

  
  ::

		docker push <private-pro-image-name>

- a Kubernetes cluster with a Ubuntu Pro subscription. See the cloud-specific guides to

>   learn how to deploy it for :doc:`EKS </aws/eks/eks-how-to/build-ubuntu-pro-cluster.rst>`

Reviewer: change build- par deploy- for eks

Author: Done, thanks!

  and :doc:`GCE </google/gce/gce-how-to/deploy-kubernetes-with-ubuntu-pro>`.

Create a Secret for Private Registry
------------------------------------

If you published your image to a private registry, you will need to create a
`secret <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/>`_ in Kubernetes.
`See here <https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/pull-image-private-registry/>`_
to learn about pulling images from private registries.

You can use the following example command to create a secret named ``regcred`` for
`Docker Hub <https://hub.docker.com>`_. Use ``https://index.docker.io/v1/``
as ``<your-registry-server>``.

> 

Reviewer 2: Are we suggesting the use of ``https://index.docker.io/v1/`` for some specific reason? If so, mention that reason. This statement sounds like a mandatory requirement.

Reviewer 2: Yes, I understand. Adding the 'For this' at the beginning of the statement just makes it a little clearer that the specific URL is needed because we are giving Dockerhub as an example.

Author: Ah okay, thanks. Let me add another commit. :v

Reviewer 2: :) thanks!

Author: Done!

Deploy Ubuntu Pro container image to Pro Kubernetes cluster
===========================================================

You can easily deploy your Ubuntu Pro container images to Ubuntu Pro Kubernetes clusters.
The Kubernetes cluster needs to be on Ubuntu Pro nodes. Read more on the
`Ubuntu Pro <https://ubuntu.com/pro>`_ website.

Prerequisites
-------------

You will need --

- an Ubuntu Pro container image on a private registry. See how to build one
  :doc:`here <build-ubuntu-pro-container-image>`.
  The image should be kept private to avoid sharing your Ubuntu Pro subscription with
  unwanted users since the image is linked to your Ubuntu Pro subscription.
  
  You can publish the image to your private registry. First, tag the image with your
  private registry details using:

  ::

		docker tag <pro-image-name> <private-registry-pro-image-name>
	
  Finally, publish the image with:
  
  ::

		docker push <private-registry-pro-image-name>

> - a Kubernetes cluster with a Ubuntu Pro subscription. See the cloud-specific guides to

Reviewer 3: I think this hints to what I'm suggesting in https://github.com/canonical/ubuntu-cloud-docs/pull/33#pullrequestreview-1388568279.

basically, the prerequisite is a pro cluster. So as you are doing here, you can create a small section to quickly explain how that works for multiple clouds, either pointing to existing documentation or mentioning what you already have in the other open PRs

Author: Added a section with instructions on how to deploy Pro K8s clusters.

		choose Ubuntu Pro images for the nodes.

			"Deploying Kubernetes clusters in Karbon requires a **CentOS** image.
			You must choose from a CentOS version and download the image."

			-- `Nutanix docs: "Downloading Images" <https://portal.nutanix.com/page/documents/details?targetId=Karbon-v2_4:kar-karbon-upload-image-t.html>`_

		**Get an Ubuntu Pro subscription**

		You can reach out `here <https://ubuntu.com/support/contact-us?product=contextual-footer-ua>`_
		to attach the cluster nodes to an Ubuntu Pro subscription, or contact
		`rocks@canonical.com <mailto:rocks@canonical.com>`_ if you need additional support.

		**Success**

		After attaching your Ubuntu Pro subscription to the cluster nodes, you will have an
		Ubuntu Pro Kubernetes cluster running on Nutanix.

.. _create-k8s-secret:
Create a Secret for Private Registry
------------------------------------

Since your Ubuntu Pro container image is in a private registry, you will need to create a
`secret <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/>`_ in Kubernetes
(`see here <https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/pull-image-private-registry/>`_

> for more details pulling images from private registries).

Reviewer 2: add 'about' -> for more details about pulling images from private registries).

Reviewer 2: the 'about' went to the wrong place :) .. "see here for more about details" -> "see here for more details about pulling .."

Reviewer: done

::

	kubectl create secret docker-registry regcred \
	    --docker-server=<your-registry-server> \
	    --docker-username=<your-username> \
	    --docker-password=<your-password> \
	    --docker-email=<your-email>

Deploy Pro container image to Pro Kubernetes cluster
----------------------------------------------------

You can deploy your Pro container image in a `Pod`_, `Deployment`_, or as a `Service`_.
Make sure to include your created :ref:`secret <create-k8s-secret>` and your Pro container image correctly.

.. _Pod: https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/
.. _Deployment: https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/
.. _Service: https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/

Here is a manifest for a Pod that consists of a container running your
Ubuntu Pro image. It uses your secret ``regcred`` to pull the Pro container image
from your private registry.

::

	# pro-container-pod.yaml
	apiVersion: v1
	kind: Pod
	metadata:
	  name: pro-container-pod
	spec:
	  imagePullSecrets:
	  - name: regcred
	  containers:
	  - name: ubuntu-pro-container
	    image: <your-private-pro-image>
	  restartPolicy: OnFailure

> Replace ``<your-private-pro-image>`` your private Pro container image (something

Reviewer 2: add 'with' -> Replace ``<your-private-pro-image>`` with your private Pro container image (something

===========================================================

You can easily deploy your Ubuntu Pro container images to Ubuntu Pro Kubernetes clusters.
The Kubernetes cluster needs to be on Ubuntu Pro nodes. Read more on the
`Ubuntu Pro <https://ubuntu.com/pro>`_ website.

Prerequisites
-------------

You will need

- an Ubuntu Pro container image on a private registry. See how to build one
  :doc:`here <build-ubuntu-pro-container-image>`.
  The image should be kept private to avoid sharing your Ubuntu Pro subscription with
  unwanted users since the image is linked to your Ubuntu Pro subscription.
  
  You can publish the image to your private registry. First, tag the image with your
  private registry details using:

  ::

		docker tag <pro-image-name> <private-registry-pro-image-name>
	
  Finally, publish the image with:
  
  ::

		docker push <private-registry-pro-image-name>

- a Kubernetes cluster with a Ubuntu Pro subscription. See the 
  :ref:`section below <deploy-pro-kubernetes-cluster>` to learn how to deploy it
  for various clouds.

.. _deploy-pro-kubernetes-cluster:

Deploy Pro Kubernetes clusters
------------------------------

.. tabs::

	.. tab:: EKS

> 		Please see :doc:`here </aws/eks/eks-how-to/deploy-ubuntu-pro-cluster.rst>` to learn

Reviewer: Yeah to merge this one, EKS need to be merged

		choose Ubuntu Pro images for the nodes.

			"RHCOS is the only supported operating system for OpenShift Container Platform control plane, or master, machines. While RHCOS is the default operating system for all cluster machines, you can create compute machines, which are also known as worker machines, that use RHEL as their operating system."

			-- `OpenShift docs <https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.8/architecture/architecture-rhcos.html#rhcos-about_architecture-rhcos>`_

		**Get an Ubuntu Pro subscription**

		You can reach out `here <https://ubuntu.com/support/contact-us?product=contextual-footer-ua>`_
		to attach the cluster nodes to an Ubuntu Pro subscription, or contact
		`rocks@canonical.com <mailto:rocks@canonical.com>`_ if you need additional support.

		**Success**

		After attaching your Ubuntu Pro subscription to the cluster nodes, you will have an
		Ubuntu Pro Kubernetes cluster running on OpenShift.

	.. tab:: Tanzu

		See the `Tanzu guide <https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Tanzu-Kubernetes-Grid/index.html>`_
		to learn how to create a cluster.

		**Get an Ubuntu Pro subscription**

> 		You can reach out `here <https://ubuntu.com/support/contact-us?product=contextual-footer-ua>`_

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
		If the resulting Kubernetes cluster is composed of Ubuntu nodes, you must attach them
		to a Pro subscription as described in `here <https://ubuntu.com/pro/tutorial>`_. Otherwise,
		if the Kubernetes cluster is not running on Ubuntu nodes, you can reach out 
		`here <https://ubuntu.com/support/contact-us?product=contextual-footer-ua>`_
```

> 		to attach the cluster nodes to an Ubuntu Pro subscription, or contact

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
		to attach the nodes to an Ubuntu Pro subscription, or contact
```

		Ubuntu Pro Kubernetes cluster running on Tanzu.

	.. tab:: Nutanix

		See the `Nutanix Karbon Guide <https://portal.nutanix.com/page/documents/details?targetId=Karbon-v2_4:kar-karbon-deploy-cluster-c.html>`_
		to learn how to create a cluster.

		**Limitations**

		Nutanix does not have Ubuntu Pro offerings for the nodes, i.e. you cannot
		choose Ubuntu Pro images for the nodes.

			"Deploying Kubernetes clusters in Karbon requires a **CentOS** image.
			You must choose from a CentOS version and download the image."

			-- `Nutanix docs: "Downloading Images" <https://portal.nutanix.com/page/documents/details?targetId=Karbon-v2_4:kar-karbon-upload-image-t.html>`_

		**Get an Ubuntu Pro subscription**

		You can reach out `here <https://ubuntu.com/support/contact-us?product=contextual-footer-ua>`_
		to attach the cluster nodes to an Ubuntu Pro subscription, or contact
		`rocks@canonical.com <mailto:rocks@canonical.com>`_ if you need additional support.

		**Success**

		After attaching your Ubuntu Pro subscription to the cluster nodes, you will have an
		Ubuntu Pro Kubernetes cluster running on Nutanix.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. _create-k8s-secret:

```

Create a Secret for Private Registry
------------------------------------

> If you published your image to a private registry, you will need to create a

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Since your Ubuntu Pro container image is in a private registry, you will need to create a
```

> `secret <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/>`_ in Kubernetes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`secret <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/>`_ in Kubernetes
```

> `See here <https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/pull-image-private-registry/>`_

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
(`see here <https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/pull-image-private-registry/>`_
```

> to learn about pulling images from private registries.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
for more details about pulling images from private registries).
```

You can use the following example command to create a secret named ``regcred`` for

> `Docker Hub <https://hub.docker.com>`_. For this, use ``https://index.docker.io/v1/``

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`Docker Hub <https://hub.docker.com>`_ (i.e. using ``https://index.docker.io/v1/``
```

Reviewer 3: is it https://index.docker.io/v1/ or just docker.io?

Reviewer: For kubernetes docs it's with the index

> as ``<your-registry-server>``.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
as ``<your-registry-server>``).
```

::

	kubectl create secret docker-registry regcred \
	    --docker-server=<your-registry-server> \

> 	    --docker-username=<your-name> \

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
	    --docker-username=<your-username> \
```

> 	    --docker-password=<your-pword> \

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
	    --docker-password=<your-password> \
```

	    --docker-email=<your-email>

Deploy Pro container image to Pro Kubernetes cluster
----------------------------------------------------

You can deploy your Pro container image in a `Pod`_, `Deployment`_, or as a `Service`_.

> Make sure to include your created `secret`_ and your Pro container image correctly.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Make sure to include your created :ref:`secret <create-k8s-secret>` and your Pro container image correctly.
```

.. _Pod: https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/
.. _Deployment: https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/
.. _Service: https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/

> Here is a manifest for an example Pod that consists of a container running your

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Here is a manifest for a Pod that consists of a container running your
```

Ubuntu Pro image. It uses your secret ``regcred`` to pull the Pro container image
from your private registry.

::

	# pro-container-pod.yaml
	apiVersion: v1
	kind: Pod
	metadata:
	  name: pro-container-pod
	spec:
	  imagePullSecrets:
	  - name: regcred
	  containers:
	  - name: ubuntu-pro-container
	    image: <your-private-pro-image>
	  restartPolicy: OnFailure

> Replace ``<your-private-pro-image>`` with the path to an image in a private registry

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Replace ``<your-private-pro-image>`` with your private Pro container image (something
similar to ``your.private.registry.example.com/janedoe/jdoe-private:v1``).
```

Reviewer 3: Please use a more realistic example. The secret created above is meant to work with Docker Hub, so provide a mock example of a private image that would be hosted there.

Reviewer: i have put a realistic example

> such as:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> ::

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> 	your.private.registry.example.com/janedoe/jdoe-private:v1

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
